Track 01.05
Kris: It all started with this
online game about Vikings.
Nicolas and I
ended up
on the same team
and, after each game,
there was this chat session.
Well, Nicolas wrote these really funny
comments about the teams and the
other players,
and he made me laugh.
I’d write replies to his comments,
and he’d come back with another joke
and, you know,
it was a lot of fun.
Then we sort of started messaging
each other when we weren’t gaming.
Like me,
Nicolas is crazy about
anything to do with Vikings –
like, he’s read all the history
and just knows so much.
We’ve never met up
because he lives in Bogotá,
in Colombia,
so it’s not like we’re neighbours
or anything.
And that’s the other amazing
thing about him.
Like, he’s never left Colombia,
but his English is almost perfect.
We’ve spoken online –
I don’t know how his English
got to be so good.
I have so much more in
common with Nicolas
than I do with the friends I see every day.
Alex: Zohra and I met on this fan website
for The Hunger Games.
We both think this is one of the most
amazing series of books we’ve ever read.
But we both really enjoy
other science fiction as well.
A lot of people on the fan site
just wanted to talk about
The Hunger Games
and nothing else,
but Zohra was like me and wanted
to read other writers –
like, some of the classic writers
of science fiction –
Frank Herbert,
Ursula K. Le Guin,
Philip K. Dick –
people like that.
So for a while we would decide together
what book to read,
and after every chapter
we’d discuss what had happened
and guess what might happen next.
I really enjoyed this way of reading.
It kind of made it more interesting.
And then I had this idea
that we could set up a book club online
and, you know, include a few more people.
But Zohra wasn’t too interested in that.
I could sort of feel her pulling away.
She didn’t text so often,
and suddenly she didn’t have time to read
a book together –
that sort of thing.
That’s fine.
I enjoyed having an online friend,
but I didn’t want to have just one friend –
I wanted more.
In fact,
now I’ve got a lot more –
I set up the book club anyway.
Kelly: I joined a discussion board called
‘Greenie’ and I could see immediately that
Joe was the guy with the best ideas.
There were always a lot of
comments about
how bad things are,
and how the environment is
suffering and all that.
But Joe was practical
and would always ask,
‘OK, so what are we going to do about it?’
and then he would suggest something –
small and simple things,
but practical things.
You know, like,
‘Everyone turn off your air conditioning
and open the windows –
sweat it out for the planet!’
‘I like people who do stuff and
don’t just talk about it.
Then I figured out that
Joe and I live in the same town.
So,
we messaged a little
and agreed to meet up.
Together with some online
friends and some face-to-face friends,
we’ve set up a local action group.
We got the city council to set aside
some green areas
and we’re raising money to buy
trees to plant there.
And we’ve set up a website
to show everyone what we’re doing
and we’re attracting
more friends who want to join in.
That’s the thing with online friendships –
sometimes they carry over into the real world,
and you can do some amazing things.